---
title: My year 2014 in tech
date: 2014-12-18
template: single.hbt
---
# The end of the year
The year 2014 is comming to an end. It was a very exiting year with lots of new awsome stuff for me. When I look back, for me it was the year of JavaScript. Maybe not the whole way from Saulus to Paulus but I left my *brave new java world* and jumped right into the deep whole of JavaScript. Of course there was a lot more out their, to mention a few of the technical thinks I encountered:

* I've started using markdown as a layout language
* I got the NoSQL way and put mongo in production
* My team and I switched from svn to git and nobody want to go back
* We are starting to love SCRUM based agile development
* I've started using cloud programming on[IBM Bluemix](www.bluemix.net) 

# A year about people
Also I'm in a tech job, programming ist mostly about people. About their ideas and skills, I've met quite a lot of awsome people who are very inspiring to me to mention at least a few events:

* Working at the [Edelstall Coworking space](www.edelstall.de) in Hannover is really awsome
* I've joined my first DNUG and I'm pretty exited about what collaboration will look like in a few years
* I've now a twitter account (finally) and it seems to be a real good news source for tech people
* I've joined the HannoverJS usergroup and met real awsome people

# Thinks to come
Thinking about the next year is of course fortune telling. But very cool thinks are coming. My big think at work will be transforming my company into a new winning company again and going further on our way about information management. It's a great job doing not only technical stuff but also bringing a new company to the next level.
But of course there will be technical things in the next year I will have a look at:

* The next big thing might be docker and how it will change devops and deployments
* I will have a look at content analytics with IBM Watson and other bluemix thinks
* After my first JavaScript steps this year I'll have look at node.js and angular